.TH "Q2PRO" "6" 
.SH "NAME" 
Q2PRO \(em enhanced Quake 2 dedicated server
.SH "SYNOPSIS" 
.PP 
\fBq2proded\fR [\fB+command \fIarguments\fR\fP]  
.SH "DESCRIPTION" 
.PP 
This manual page documents briefly the \fBq2proded\fR program.
.PP 
Q2PRO is an enhanced Quake 2 dedicated server, fully compatible
with original Quake 2 clients.
.PP
Q2PRO features network protocol optimizations, increased security and
stability, improved performance, multiview demo recording and live game
broadcasting capabilities.
.SH "OPTIONS" 
.PP 
Commands given on the command line start with a `+', and continue until
another `+' or end of line. Variables given on command line override those
given in normal configuration files. If the variable does not exist,
it will be created for future use. Some examples of possible commands follow.
.IP "\fB+set deathmatch 1\fP" 7
Enable deathmatch mode (no monsters, etc). 
.IP "\fB+exec config.cfg\fP" 7
Execute the specified configuration file. 
.IP "\fB+map q2dm1\fP" 7
Spawn the server on the given map. 
.IP "\fB\-\-version\fP" 7
Show version and exit. 
.SH "FILES" 
.PP
.IP "\fB/etc/default/q2pro\fP" 7
System wide configuration file. The first one to be executed.
.IP "\fB/usr/share/games/q2pro/\fP" 7
Root of the static Quake 2 game data hierarchy. Various game media is installed
here, either as individual files, or in form of (possibly compressed) packfiles.
.IP "\fB/usr/lib/games/q2pro/\fP" 7
Quake 2 game mod shared libraries are installed here.
.IP "\fB~/.q2pro/\fP" 7
User's local data hierarchy. Overrides system hierarchy. Any dynamic
data Q2PRO produces (savegames, demos, etc) is written here.
Game mod libraries are \fBnever\fP loaded from here for security reasons.

.SH "BUGS" 
.PP 
There are a lot more commands and variables, registered dynamically as
various subsystems are loaded. They are not yet documented here.
.SH "AUTHOR" 
.PP 
Quake 2 engine is Copyright (C) 1997-2001 Id Software, Inc. 
Q2PRO is Copyright (C) 2003-2010 Andrey Nazarov <skuller@skuller.net>. 
.PP 
This manual page was written by Andrey Nazarov <skuller@skuller.net> for 
the \fBDebian\fP system (but may be used by others).  Permission is 
granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under 
the terms of the GNU General Public License, Version 2 any  
later version published by the Free Software Foundation. 
.PP 
On Debian systems, the complete text of the GNU General Public 
License can be found in /usr/share/common-licenses/GPL. 
 
