Netcode
-----------------

Both server and client sides of Q2PRO fully support the following network
protocols:

* 34, final version of the original Quake2 protocol.
* 35, enhanced [R1Q2 protocol][r1q2].
* 36, enhanced Q2PRO protocol, extension of R1Q2 protocol.

Key features of Q2PRO protocol from technical perspective:

* Decoupled outgoing client packet rate, physics frame rate
  and rendering frame rate.
* Client is capable of sampling user input each frame but sending
  movement intentions in batches every few frames. This allows you
  to take advantage of high physics frame rate while keeping
  outgoing bandwidth adequate.
* Adjustable number of backup batches included in each client packet.
  Can be turned off completely for extra bandwidth savings
  over reliable connections.
* Server doesn't send player entity coordinates every frame as
  client regenerates them from playerstate. Dynamic lights and sounds
  associated with client entity no longer lag behind your locally
  predicted position.
* Server is able to filter gibs/footsteps on per-client basis.
* Netchan level packet fragmentation support with possible
  asynchronous delivery (i.e. fragments are sent with less then 100 ms
  granularity as soon as client `rate` limit allows). No more frame
  overflows in mods with extremly high activity. Faster map load times
  due to the higher game state compression ratio, as all configstrings
  and baselines are compressed in a single pass.
* Per-key delta userinfo updates. E.g. if you often update your
  FOV setting, only a few bytes will be transmitted instead of
  the whole userinfo string.
* Ability to dynamically update client entity number. Needed for in-eyes
  chasecam mode to work properly. This requires support from the game mod,
  currently provided by the MVD subsystem and modern mods such as OpenTDM.

[r1q2]: http://r-1.ch/r1q2-protocol.txt

