Stable releases
---------------

Current stable version of Q2PRO client for Win32 is **r364**
([q2pro-client_r364_win32_x86_anticheat.zip][1], 1.2 M).
This version is supported by r1ch.net anticheat.
Thanks, R1CH, for building this version!

Current stable version of Q2PRO server is **r396**.
GNU/Linux and Win32 builds are found in the [stable/][2] directory,
along with source snapshots. If you are running older Q2PRO server
version, you are highly recommended to upgrade.

[1]: http://antiche.at/files/q2pro-client_r364_win32_x86_anticheat.zip
[2]: /q2pro/download/stable/

Users of Debian GNU/Linux and compatible distributions can
conveniently install prebuilt Q2PRO client and server packages
from the [[APT repository|apt]].

Unstable builds
---------------

Latest GNU/Linux server builds and Win32 client and server
builds from SVN trunk are available in the [unstable/][3] directory,
along with source snapshots. You might also find development
[timeline page][4] useful for tracking latest changes.

[3]: /q2pro/download/unstable/
[4]: /q2pro/cvstrac/timeline

SVN access
----------

To get the latest Q2PRO source code, you need to install Subversion
client. Use the following command to checkout a fresh working copy into
the `q2pro` directory:

    svn co svn://skuller.net/q2pro/trunk q2pro

You can also [browse][5] Q2PRO source tree online.

[5]: /q2pro/cvstrac/dir?d=trunk

Archived builds
---------------

Previous Q2PRO versions of historic interest are available
in the [attic/][6] directory.

[6]: /q2pro/download/attic/
