Introduction
-----------------

Q2PRO is a [Quake 2][1] engine modification, based on source code released
under the terms of GPL by id Software. This is not a standalone game as it
does not provide any media content, but rather a backwards compatible
enhancement over original Quake 2 release designed for multiplayer use.

Backwards compatibility is defined in terms of full network protocol and
file format compatibility. Do not expect Q2PRO to be a drop-in replacement
for your original Quake 2 client — although it is (and will always be)
very close to the ‘vanilla’ Quake 2 look and feel.

Being focused on multiplayer, Q2PRO does not fully support Quake 2 singleplayer
mode, although this may change in the future.

[1]: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quake_2 "id Software's Quake II"

Important news
-----------------
* __2009-May-29:__ Q2PRO SVN repository has been migrated to skuller.net
  from Source Forge, with OpenFFA split up in a separate [project][2].
  Also, a [bug tracker][3] has been set up for Q2PRO. Feel free to use it
  for reporting bugs and proposing enhancements. No registration is required!

[2]: /openffa/
[3]: /q2pro/cvstrac/index

* __2008-Oct-30:__ Q2PRO server versions from r307 and up now implement
  improved MVD/GTV protocol capable of automatic connection recovery and
  feature special ‘suspension mode’ for additional bandwidth savings in
  case there are no players/spectators on a channel.

Feature highlights
-----------------

* __Performance increases.__ OpenGL renderer has been completely
  rewritten to take full advantage of capabilities of modern hardware.
  By greatly reducing driver overhead, Q2PRO provides performace
  increases up to 200% of default Quake 2 renderer speed, especially on
  open source GNU/Linux video drivers for Intel and ATI/AMD hardware.

* __Enhanced console input.__ Autocompletes not just command and cvar names,
  but also arguments of many frequently used commands. Graphical client console
  supports most of readline(3) key bindings, making command line editing
  much more convenient.

* __Basic demo editing.__ Allows one to record a demo while playing
  back another one. There is no longer need for external demo editor to perform
  basic operations like cutting interesting frags out of a demo.

* __Integrated demo and server browsers.__ Allows one to easily navigate through
  their demo collection by providing integrated demo browser. Address book
  functionality is improved by providing integrated server browser.

* __Multi view demo support.__ Server is capable of recording and playing
  back demos in custom MVD format, capturing views from each player in game.
  During playback, spectators themselves choose which view they would like
  to watch. This is completely transparent to and supported for _any_ Quake 2
  client connected to Q2PRO server.

* __Game television support.__ Server may act as game relay node, allowing
  large amount of spectators watch game in real time without putting any
  additional load on the game server itself. Furthermore, live game streaming
  is done with all benefits of MVD format. There is no need for ‘camera man’,
  unlike other GTV implementations. To prevent cheating, GTV server delays
  the MVD stream by adjustable amount of time (typically 20-30 seconds) before
  it is shown to spectators.

* __Frame rates separation.__ Client provides ‘true’ networking, physics,
  rendering and input polling frame rates separation. Unlike other Quake 2 
  clients, Q2PRO will not waste CPU cycles drawing frames never actually
  seen on screen, but will poll for user input instead in order to minimize
  input latency.

* __Improved security and stability.__ Developed with security in mind, Q2PRO
  carefully handles all untrusted data, including data coming from the network
  as well as static files like game media, which are often downloaded
  from untrusted locations. Q2PRO is probably the only Quake 2 client out there
  that strives to gracefully handle all kind of incorrect input, like malformed
  maps, sounds and images.

* __Support for multiple platforms.__ Client and server are portable enough
  to run natively on Win32/x86 as well as many UNIX-like systems across
  different CPU arches. The only dependency of Q2PRO server is Zlib, while
  Q2PRO client uses highly portable SDL library for graphical and sound output.

Navigation
-----------------

* [[download]]
* [[documentation|doc]]
* [[contact]]
* [bug tracker](/q2pro/cvstrac/index)

