APT repository
----------------
Prebuilt Q2PRO packages are available for the stable Debian distribution
for i386 and amd64 architectures. Built in Debian 5.0 ‘Lenny’ environment,
these packages are expected to install in testing/unstable branches as well,
even Ubuntu users may give them a try.

In order to get Q2PRO repository contents automatically managed by APT,
add the following lines into your `/etc/apt/sources.list` file (you need
root privileges for this):

    deb http://skuller.net/debian/ lenny q2pro
    deb-src http://skuller.net/debian/ lenny q2pro

Users of Secure APT also need to import the repository signing key:

    wget -q -O - http://skuller.net/debian/archive.key | apt-key add -

Finally, run the following commands to install or upgrade Q2PRO:

    aptitude update
    aptitude install q2pro-client   # install the graphical client
    aptitude install q2pro-server   # install the dedicated server

Of course, it is also possible to download the individual [packages][1]
manually and install them using `dpkg -i` command.

Please note that Q2PRO packages above are not providing any game media
files for Quake 2 like textures and maps. You have to install them yourself,
otherwise graphical client won't run.

By default only base Quake 2 game library is installed, which provides
the single player campaign (not quite useful for Q2PRO) and a very
limited deathmatch mode. Thus, you will probably want to install some
additional game mods.

Right now, two open source multiplayer mods configured for use with Q2PRO
server are also packaged: [OpenTDM][2] and [OpenFFA][3]. Run the following
commands to install them:

    aptitude install q2pro-opentdm   # install OpenTDM
    aptitude install q2pro-openffa   # install OpenFFA

Then, run `q2pro` or `q2proded` with `+set game opentdm` or `+set game openffa` options.

[1]: /debian/pool/q2pro/
[2]: http://opentdm.net/
[3]: /openffa/

