Stable releases
---------------

Current stable version of Q2PRO client for Win32 is **r364**
([q2pro-client_r364_win32_x86_anticheat.zip][1], 1.2 M).
This version is supported by r1ch.net anticheat.
Thanks, R1CH, for building this version!

Current stable version of single-user Q2PRO server for GNU/Linux is **r496**.
Latest stable version of Q2PRO server for Win32 is **r396**.
These builds are found in the [stable/][2] directory, along with
source snapshots.

[1]: http://antiche.at/files/q2pro-client_r364_win32_x86_anticheat.zip
[2]: /q2pro/download/stable/

Linux packages
---------------

In addition to the manual installation method above, it is also possible to
install Q2PRO pre-packaged for your Linux distribution. Advantages of this
approach are automatic updates, system-wide installation that makes Q2PRO
runnable by multiple users, and increased security due to the separation of
static, writable and executable content and access rights.

Users of Debian GNU/Linux can conveniently install Q2PRO client and server
packages from skuller.net APT [[repository|apt]]. Ubuntu users can install
Q2PRO from a [PPA][3] at launchpad.net.

[3]: https://launchpad.net/~skuller/+archive/q2pro

Unstable builds
---------------

Latest GNU/Linux single-user server builds and Win32 client and server
builds from SVN trunk are available in the [unstable/][4] directory,
along with source snapshots. You might find development
[timeline page][5] useful for tracking latest changes. There is also
a periodically updated summary of important [changes][6] available.

[4]: /q2pro/download/unstable/
[5]: /q2pro/cvstrac/timeline
[6]: /q2pro/cvstrac/fileview?f=trunk/CHANGES

SVN access
----------

To get the latest Q2PRO source code, you need to install Subversion
client. Use the following command to checkout a fresh working copy into
the `q2pro` directory and prepare it for building:

    $ svn co svn://skuller.net/q2pro/trunk q2pro
    $ cd q2pro
    $ svnversion > REVISION

You can also [browse][7] Q2PRO source tree online.

[7]: /q2pro/cvstrac/dir?d=trunk

Archived builds
---------------

Previous Q2PRO versions of historic interest are available
in the [attic/][8] directory.

[8]: /q2pro/download/attic/
